‘Across the Wheat Field’: 
Data & Memory on the Border

For the past four years, I deeply engaged in an arts education initiative along the China-Myanmar border. For four years have I offered free arts education summer camps for ethnic minority children, as well as conduct longitudinal, home-visit style fieldwork and micro-archiving individual children.

With six years of qualitative material accumulated, we are organizing a 'Children's Growth Database.' This project leverages Digital Ethnography to chronicle the micro-histories of marginalized individuals at cultural crossroads, exploring how tailored Data Architecture can politically and culturally empower subaltern communities.

In 2025, during my stay, I was asked by the village chief to make some decoration that memorizing Lisu ethnic culture, for his coffee factory. So i decided to carve the forgotten ritual poetry in old Lisu pictographic script onto village walls.

Local lore states that the Lisu script, originally written on deer-hide, was lost when a dog consumed the hide, leaving its sacred usage restricted solely to shamans. With the eradication of indigenous animism and the 20th-century introduction of the Romanized Fraser script by Western missionaries, the original scripts became entirely forgotten.

THE RITUAL POETRY

Oh Heaven,
Abundant words are not always the truth;
What the majority honors is the truth.Thousands may gather without one heart;
To gather with a single heart is more precious than gold.
Not all who offer sacrifices are sincere;
The insincere will never receive Heaven's grace.
Worshippers drift in like snowflakes;
Gods from all directions arrive at the altar,
Yet malevolent spirits mingle among the crowd.
The spirit of the altar watches over the sheltering rhododendron tree;
It longs even more for the blooming rhododendron forest.

However, 9 months after the completion of this project, the physical wall carvings were ordered to be removed by officials due to political and religious sensitivities. The physical carving has been completely removed.

This project forced me to confront how cultural hegemony erases the memories of marginalized communities. Carving the old script back onto the walls was meant to be a physical ritual against forgetting. However, I never expected it to be so short-lived. This sudden removal exposed the deep fragility of physical objects under reality.

I realize that when physical interventions can be wiped away overnight, a digital database is no longer just a technical tool—it could become the permanent shelter for a community's memory.

click to see my next project
